Add 'gdal vector geom set-type' and 'gdal vector geom explode-collections' (#12024)
OSGeo/gdal: doc/source/programs/gdal_vector_geom_op_set_type.rst

Synopsis
--------

.. program-output:: gdal vector geom-op set-type --help-doc

Description
-----------

:program:`gdal vector geom-op set-type` can be used to modify the geometry type
of geometry fields at the layer and/or feature level.

It can also be used as a step of :ref:`gdal_vector_pipeline_subcommand`.

The following groups of options can be combined together:
-  :option:`--multi` / :option:`--single`
-  :option:`--linear` / :option:`--curve`
-  :option:`--xy` / :option:`--xyz` / :option:`--xym` / :option:`--xyzm`

Standard options
++++++++++++++++

.. include:: gdal_options/of_vector.rst

.. include:: gdal_options/co_vector.rst

.. include:: gdal_options/overwrite.rst

.. include:: gdal_options/active_layer.rst

.. option:: --active-geometry <ACTIVE-GEOMETRY>

    Set the active geometry field from its name. When it is specified, only the
    specified geometry field will be subject to the processing. Other geometry
    fields will be not modified.
    If this option is not specified, all geometry fields will be subject to the
    processing.
    This option can be combined together with :option:`--active-layer`.

.. option:: --layer-only

>     Only modify the layer geometry type.

Reviewer: I tried to think about a use case for this. One is if the layer is generic "geometry" but features are known to be all points, for example. Are there others?

Author: yes, that's the main one. Following sentence added : "A typical use case is if the layer
    geometry type is set to unknown and the user knows that the layer only
    contains geometry of a given type."

.. option:: --feature-only

>     Only modify the geometry type of features.

Reviewer: Curious about a use case for this.

Author: mostly for symmetry with --layer-only.  Perhaps someone would want to keep the layer geometry type to unknown to be able to insert any geometry, but make sure all existing ones are of a given type

   ``GEOMETRY``, ``POINT``, ``LINESTRING``, ``POLYGON``, ``MULTIPOINT``, ``MULTILINESTRING``,
   ``MULTIPOLYGON``, ``GEOMETRYCOLLECTION``, ``CURVE``, ``CIRCULARSTRING``, ``COMPOUNDCURVE``,
   ``SURFACE``, ``CURVEPOLYGON``, ``MULTICURVE``, ``MULTISURFACE``, ``POLYHEDRALSURFACE`` or ``TIN``.
   ``Z``, ``M`` or ``ZM`` suffixes can be appended to the above values to
   indicate the dimensionality.

   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--multi`, :option:`--single`,
   :option:`--linear`, :option:`--curve`, :option:`--xy`, :option:`--xyz`,
   :option:`--xym`, :option:`--xyzm`.

.. option:: --multi

   Force geometries to MULTI geometry types. e.g. ``POINT`` ==> ``MULTIPOINT``.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--single`.

.. option:: --single

   Force geometries to non-MULTI geometry types. e.g. ``MULTIPOINT`` ==> ``POINT``.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--multi`.

.. option:: --linear

   Force geometries to linear/non-curve geometry types, stroking circular portions.
   e.g. ``COMPOUNDCURVE`` ==> ``LINESTRING``.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--curve`.

.. option:: --curve

>    Force geometries to cure geometry types. e.g. ``LINESTRING`` ==> ``COMPOUNDCURVE``.

Reviewer: ...to curved geometry types

Author: fixed

    geometry type is set to unknown and the user knows that the layer only
    contains geometry of a given type.

.. option:: --feature-only

    Only modify the geometry type of features.

.. option:: --geometry-type <GEOMETRY-TYPE>

   Change the geometry type to be one of
   ``GEOMETRY``, ``POINT``, ``LINESTRING``, ``POLYGON``, ``MULTIPOINT``, ``MULTILINESTRING``,
   ``MULTIPOLYGON``, ``GEOMETRYCOLLECTION``, ``CURVE``, ``CIRCULARSTRING``, ``COMPOUNDCURVE``,
   ``SURFACE``, ``CURVEPOLYGON``, ``MULTICURVE``, ``MULTISURFACE``, ``POLYHEDRALSURFACE`` or ``TIN``.
   ``Z``, ``M`` or ``ZM`` suffixes can be appended to the above values to
   indicate the dimensionality.

   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--multi`, :option:`--single`,
   :option:`--linear`, :option:`--curve`, :option:`--xy`, :option:`--xyz`,
   :option:`--xym`, :option:`--xyzm`.

.. option:: --multi

   Force geometries to MULTI geometry types. e.g. ``POINT`` ==> ``MULTIPOINT``.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--single`.

.. option:: --single

   Force geometries to non-MULTI geometry types. e.g. ``MULTIPOINT`` ==> ``POINT``.

>    This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--multi`.

Reviewer 2: Indicate what happens if an input has > 1 component ? Do extra components get dropped or produce an error ?

Author: added: "MultiPoint or MultiLinestring with more than one component will be kept
   unmodified. MultiPolygon with more than one component will be merged into
   a (likely invalid according to OGC Simple Features rule) single polygon,
   merging all their rings."

.. option:: --linear

>    Force geometries to linear/non-curve geometry types, stroking circular portions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Force geometries to linear/non-curve geometry types, approximating arcs with linear segments. The linear approximation can be controlled with configuration options :config:`OGR_STEP_ARCSIZE` and :config:`OGR_ARC_MAX_CAP` (specified using :option:`--config`).
```

   e.g. ``COMPOUNDCURVE`` ==> ``LINESTRING``.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--curve`.

.. option:: --curve

   Force geometries to curve geometry types. e.g. ``LINESTRING`` ==> ``COMPOUNDCURVE``.

>    This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--linear`.

Reviewer 2: Are Point geometries passed through?

Author: adding "Points are kept unmodified."

.. option:: --xy

   Force geometries to XY dimension.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--xyz`, :option:`--xym`, :option:`--xyzm`.

.. option:: --xyz

>    Force geometries to XYZ dimension.

Reviewer 2: Indicate what happens if inputs lack Z/M ?

Author: added "If the input geometry lacks a Z component, it will be set to 0."

   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--xy`, :option:`--xym`, :option:`--xyzm`.

.. option:: --xym

   Force geometries to XYM dimension.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--xy`, :option:`--xyz`, :option:`--xyzm`.

.. option:: --xyzm

   Force geometries to XYZM dimension.
   This option is mutually exclusive with :option:`--xy`, :option:`--xyz`, :option:`--xym`.

> .. option:: --skip

Reviewer 2: Does this only apply with `--geometry-type` ?

Author: added "This option applies both when the target geometry type is defined with
   :option:`--geometry-type`, or with any of :option:`--multi`, :option:`--single`,
   :option:`--linear`, :option:`--curve`, :option:`--xy`, :option:`--xyz`,
   :option:`--xym` or :option:`--xyzm`."
